Release notes for Pipelines 1.8 (#47573)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-release-notes-1-8.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * cicd/pipelines/op-release-notes.adoc
:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="op-release-notes-1-8_{context}"]
= Release notes for {pipelines-title} General Availability 1.8

> With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.8 is available on {product-title} 4.9, 4.10, and 4.11.

Reviewer: 1.8 is shipped (and supported) on 4.10, 4.11, 4.12 (see https://spaces.redhat.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=SRVKP&title=Pipeline+Component+Matrix)

Author: Thanks for the link, @vdemeester. Because 4.11 and 4.12 won't be available when 1.8 GA goes live, we must state this as follows:
```suggestion
With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.8 is available on {product-title} 4.10, and is planned to be available on {product-title} 4.11 and 4.12.
```

Reviewer: yes 👍🏼

[id="new-features-1-8_{context}"]
== New features

In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.8.

[id="<feature>-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== <feature>

*

[id="deprecated-features-1-8_{context}"]
== Deprecated features

> * Support for the `operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API version, which was deprecated in {pipelines-title} GA 1.6, is planned to be removed in the upcoming {pipelines-title} GA 1.9 release. Bug fixes and support for that API version are provided only through the end of the current GA 1.8 lifecycle. Use the `v1beta1` API version instead.

Reviewer: This is `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` that is deprecated. This solely affect the pipeline component (`TaskRun`, `PipelineRun`, `Task`, `Pipeline`, …)

`operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1` is not deprecated and still in use by the operator.

Author: Updated, thanks. PTAL, @vdemeester. WDYT?

Reviewer: sounds good 👍🏼

:FeatureName: Running {pipelines-title} on ARM hardware
[id="running-pipelines-on-arm-hardware-1-8_{context}"]
=== {FeatureName}

With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an OpenShift Container Platform cluster that is running on ARM hardware.

include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="deprecated-features-1-8_{context}"]
== Deprecated features

* Support for the `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API version, which was deprecated in {pipelines-title} GA 1.6, is planned to be removed in the upcoming {pipelines-title} GA 1.9 release.
+
This change affects the pipeline component, which includes the `TaskRun`, `PipelineRun`, `Task`, `Pipeline`, and similar `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` resources. The `operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API version is not deprecated and still used by the Operator.
+
Bug fixes and support for the `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API version are provided only through the end of the current GA 1.8 lifecycle. Use the `tekton.dev/v1beta1` API version instead.
//  (link:https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/pull/1103[#1103])

[id="known-issues-1-8_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * There is currently a known issue: The `s2i-nodejs` pipeline cannot use the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream to perform source-to-image (S2I) builds. Doing so produces an `error building at STEP "RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble": exit status 127` message. There is no workaround at this time.

Reviewer 2: Actually, workaround is to use `nodejs:14-ubi8` (without the suffix "minimal")

Author: Updated. Thanks.

include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="deprecated-features-1-8_{context}"]
== Deprecated features

* Support for the `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API version, which was deprecated in {pipelines-title} GA 1.6, is planned to be removed in the upcoming {pipelines-title} GA 1.9 release.
+
This change affects the pipeline component, which includes the `TaskRun`, `PipelineRun`, `Task`, `Pipeline`, and similar `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` resources. The `operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API version is not deprecated and still used by the Operator.
+
Bug fixes and support for the `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API version are provided only through the end of the current GA 1.8 lifecycle. Use the `tekton.dev/v1beta1` API version instead.
//  (link:https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/pull/1103[#1103])

[id="known-issues-1-8_{context}"]
== Known issues

* There is currently a known issue: The `s2i-nodejs` pipeline cannot use the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream to perform source-to-image (S2I) builds. Doing so produces an `error building at STEP "RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble": exit status 127` message.
+

> Workaround: Use `nodejs:14-ubi8` instead of the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream. You can run the `$ oc edit clustertask s2i-nodejs` command and replace `$(params.VERSION)` with `14-ubi8`. Alternatively, you can use a `TaskRun` resource to set the tag of the `nodejs` image stream to `14-ubi8`.

Reviewer 2: `oc edit` is overkill. Default value of `VERSION` parameter works fine so this known issue applies only to customers who explicitly try to use `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal`. IMHO we can assume that they know how to "Use `nodejs:14-ubi8` instead of the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream"

Author: Fixed. Thank you. Please approve now.
